# Day 18: Debugging tools - Day 1

As you start creating your PWA and making use of service workers, storage, and other advanced web features, you may start running into bugs with your code.

Thankfully, web browsers come with powerful built-in tools you can use to inspect your application's code and debug it.

On top accessing HTML and CSS, editing it live in the browser, finding JavaScript errors or debugging them, browser developer tools (or just DevTools) also come with tools specifically made for PWAs.

## Overview

Today, we'll cover the most useful tools you will need to know about and use when working on your Progressive Web App code.

In this article we'll take a look at how to simulate different devices, troubleshoot installability and caching issues, as well as test offline scenarios.

Note that we'll be using Microsoft Edge to talk about these tools, but other browsers have very similar tools.

## Motivation

Building a great PWA (and the same goes for any website, really) means creating a great web experience for all users, on every operating systems and browsers, however they may be accessing it.

As a developer, it can be very hard to put yourself in the shoes of all your users. You may have a beefy computer, a big monitor, and a fast internet connection, but your users' experiences may differ. So what works on your machine may not work exactly the same on other's.

DevTools makes it possible to simulate the conditions in which somebody may be accessing your app. They're a great way to make sure what you build works for all, and progressively enhances when possible.

## Testing on other devices

Nothing replaces testing on real devices. So once your app is getting ready and runs on a web server, it's great if you can check it on other computers and mobile devices.

It's not always possible though and DevTools comes with a very useful **Device Emulation** tool you can use to check what your app would look and feel like on other devices.

To start **Device Emulation**:

* Open DevTools by pressing `F12` or right-clicking the page and selecting `Inspect`.
* Click the **Toggle device emulation** button in the top-left corner of DevTools.

_TODO: add screenshots and quick description of features_.

Choose the devices you want to emulate in the **Dimensions** drop-down menu. When you do, the viewport resizes to match the emulated device's screen, and your cursor acts like a touch input if the emulated device supports it. If you want, you can also click **Edit** in the menu and create your own devices.

The tool also makes it possible to rotate the viewport in landscape mode, and even display a frame around the viewport to make it even more like the real device.

_TODO: Screenshot_

Learn more about the [**Device Emulation** tool](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/device-emulation).

## Making sure the app is installable

During week 1, we saw the 3 building blocks of a PWA: using [HTTPS](../core-concepts/03.md), a [Web App Manifest](../core-concepts/04.md), and a [Service Worker](../core-concepts/05.md).

Web browsers will check that all 3 are available before making a web app installable. But they also run a few more checks on the content of the worker and manifest before letting a user install the app.

There may be times when the web browser thinks your app isn't ready to be installed, and it is not always straightforward to know why. To debug this problem, you can review the installability information in the **Application** tool.

To review this information:

* Open DevTools.
* Open the **Application** tool by clicking the `+` sign in the toolbar and finding the tool name in the list.
* Once in the tool, go to the **Manifest** tab in the left sidebar.

You may see a number of warnings that prevent your application from being installable.

_TODO: Screenshot_

Review and address these warnings, and reload the page. Once the warnings are gone, the web browser should display the app installation button, which in Microsoft Edge, looks like this:

_TODO: Screenshot_

Learn more about using the [**Application** tool to review your Web App Manifest](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/debug-PWA).

## Reloading manifest changes

While we're on the topic of fixing manifest issues, there will be times when you make manifest changes and want to test the app again.

It's important to note that the manifest is mostly a way for the operating system to know how to install the app. The file is read upon installation to know what icon to use, what color and title to use for the app window, and which of the various OS services should the app take part in.

So if you change any of that, the only way for the OS to know about the change is by reading the manifest again, which happens when the app is installed. This means you will need to un-install and re-install it.

1. Un-install the app:
   * On a mobile device, PWAs can be un-installed like any other apps.
   * On desktop computers, using Microsoft Edge, or Chrome, go to the special `about:apps` page to un-install any app.
1. Go to the app again with your web browser, and make sure the new manifest is loaded.
   * You may need to force a hard-reload: open DevTools, then right-click on the page refresh icon in the browser toolbar and choose **Empty cache and hard refresh**.
1. Install the app again.

## Checking if your service worker is running

_TODO_

## Troubleshooting cache issues

A lot of your service worker code likely revolves around accessing the cache. Either reading from it or writing to it. And with any amount of code comes bugs, but unlike bugs with, say, the event handling logic of your app, bugs that have to do with handling the cache can be harder to investigate and resolve (they will often depend on whether a resource has already been cached or not).

_TODO_

## Testing offline support

_TODO_

## Learn more

_TODO: Resources = Where can I learn more (use aka.ms shared links)_

## Summary

_TODO: Summary = Reinforce key takeaway messages_
